Added Season of Docs Blog Post (#202)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2019-04-17-sod.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Apache Flink's Application to Season of Docs"
date:   2019-4-17 12:00:00
categories: news
authors:
- konstantin:
  name: "Konstantin Knauf"
  twitter: "snntrable"
---

The Apache Flink community is happy to announce its application to the first edition of [Season of Docs](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/) by Google. The program is bringing together Open Source projects and technical writers to raise awareness for and improve documentation of Open Source projects. We would like to take this chance to work with one or two technical writers for three months to improve and restructure parts of [our documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-stable/) (details below).

> The community has discussed this opportunity on the [dev mailinglist](https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/3c789b6187da23ad158df59bbc598543b652e3cfc1010a14e294e16a@%3Cdev.flink.apache.org%3E) and agreed on three project ideas to submit to the program. We have a great team of mentors (Stephan, Fabian, David, Jark & Konstantin) lined up and are very much looking forward to the first proposals by potential technical writers (given we are admitted to the program ;)). In case of questions feel free to reach out to the community via dev@flink.apache.org.

Reviewer: add a link to `./community.html#mailing-lists` to `dev@flink.apache.org`.

## Project Ideas List

> ### Improve Apache Flink Stream Processing Concepts Documentation

Reviewer: `### Project 1: Improve Documentation of Stream Processing Concepts`?

> **Description:** Stream processing is the processing of data in motion―in other words, computing on data directly as it is produced or received. Apache Flink has pioneered the field of distributed, stateful stream processing for the last few years. As such the community has introduced a couple of new concepts, which you need to become familiar with to develop and operate stream processing applications with Apache Flink efficiently.

Reviewer: `which you need to` -> `which users need to`

> The Apache Flink documentation \[1\] already contains a “concepts” section, but it is a ) incomplete and b) lacks an overall structure & reading flow. In addition, “concepts”-content is also spread over the development \[2\] & operations \[3\] documentation without references to the “concepts” section. An example of  this can be found in \[4\] and  \[5\].

Reviewer: remove double space

In this project, we would like to restructure, consolidate and extend the concepts documentation for Apache Flink. This documentation should also be linked to & from the deployment and development documentation to guide users, who want to become productive as quickly as possible.

**Related material:**

1. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/
2. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/dev
3. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/ops/
4. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/concepts/programming-model.html#time
5. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/dev/event_time.html

> ### Improve Apache Flink Deployment & Operations Documentation

Reviewer: `### Project 2: Improve Documentation of Flink Deployments & Operations`?

> **Description:** Stream processing is the processing of data in motion―in other words, computing on data directly as it is produced or received. Apache Flink has pioneered the field of distributed, stateful stream processing for the last few years. As a stateful distributed system in general and a continuously running, low-latency system in particular, Apache Flink deployments are not trivial to setup and manage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Description:** Stream processing is the processing of data in motion―in other words, computing on data directly as it is produced or received. Apache Flink has pioneered the field of distributed, stateful stream processing for the last few years. As a stateful distributed system in general and a continuously running, low-latency system in particular, Apache Flink deployments are non-trivial to setup and manage.
```

> Unfortunately, the operations \[1\] as well as the monitoring documentation \[2\] are arguably the weakest spots of the Apache Flink documentation. While it is comprehensive and often goes into a lot of detail, it lacks an overall structure and does not address common overarching concerns of operations teams in an efficient way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, the operations \[1\] and monitoring documentation \[2\] are arguably the weakest sections in the Apache Flink documentation. While they are comprehensive and often go into great detail, they lack an overall structure and do not address common overarching concerns of operations teams in an efficient way.
```

> In this project, we would like to restructure this part of the documentation, properly link it to the relevant stream processing concepts (see above) and extend it if possible. Ideas for extension include: discussion of session and per-job clusters, better documentation for containerized deployments (incl. K8s), capacity planning &  integration into CI/CD pipelines.

Reviewer: The description sounds as if project 1 is a prerequisite of project 2 (`link it to relevant stream processing concepts (see above)`. IMO, it would be better to have independent projects.

Author: Does it just sounds like it or do you think they do build on each other?

Reviewer: I think we can describe the project in a way that it they are independent, just putting different emphasis. In case both are accepted, they can fit together but I think there are many valuable improvements that do not relate to the first project.

Reviewer 2: What about dropping the references to linking sections? It sounds more like an implementation detail of the project vs a core selling point.

Author: I agree. I simply removed the reference to the stream processing concepts. I don't think this is necessary to understand the project.

**Related material:**

1. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/ops/
2. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/monitoring

> ### Table API / SQL Documentation

Reviewer: `### Project 3: Improve Documentation for Relational APIs (Table API & SQL)`?

**Description:** Apache Flink features APIs at different levels of abstraction which enables its users to trade conciseness for expressiveness. Flink’s relational APIs, SQL and the Table API, are “younger” than the DataStream and DataSet APIs, more high-level and focus on data analytics use cases. A core principle of Flink’s SQL and Table API is that they can be used to process static (batch) and continuous (streaming) data and that a program or query produces the same result in both cases.

> The documentation of Flink’s relational APIs has organically grown and could be improved in a few areas. There are several on-going development efforts that aim to extend the scope of the Table API and SQL. The existing documentation could be reorganized to prepare for covering the new features. Moreover, it could be improved by adding a concepts section that describes the use cases and internals of the APIs in more detail. Moreover, the documentation of built-in functions could be improved by adding more concrete examples.

Reviewer: `could be improved` -> `can be improved`

---
layout: post
title:  "Apache Flink's Application to Season of Docs"
date:   2019-4-17 12:00:00
categories: news
authors:
- konstantin:
  name: "Konstantin Knauf"
  twitter: "snntrable"
---

> The Apache Flink community is happy to announce its application to the first edition of [Season of Docs](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/) by Google. The program is bringing together Open Source projects and technical writers to raise awareness for and improve documentation of Open Source projects. We would like to take this chance to work with one or two technical writers for three months to improve and restructure parts of [our documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-stable/) (details below).

Reviewer 3: > We would like to take this chance to work with one or two technical writers for three months to improve and restructure parts of

This sounds a bit like we would only like to work with 2 writers in general.
Maybe we should add a sentence somewhere in the text that invites everybody to contribute to the Flink documentation, outside of the SoD program?

Author: I changed the first paragraph. What do you think?

> The community has discussed this opportunity on the [dev mailinglist](https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/3c789b6187da23ad158df59bbc598543b652e3cfc1010a14e294e16a@%3Cdev.flink.apache.org%3E) and agreed on three project ideas to submit to the program. We have a great team of mentors (Stephan, Fabian, David, Jark & Konstantin) lined up and are very much looking forward to the first proposals by potential technical writers (given we are admitted to the program ;)). In case of questions feel free to reach out to the community via [dev@flink.apache.org](../../../../community.html#mailing-lists).

Reviewer 4: `dev mailinglist` -> `dev mailing list`?

## Project Ideas List

### Project 1: Improve Documentation of Stream Processing Concepts

**Description:** Stream processing is the processing of data in motion―in other words, computing on data directly as it is produced or received. Apache Flink has pioneered the field of distributed, stateful stream processing over the last several years. As the community has pushed the boundaries of stream processing, we have introduced new concepts that users need to become familiar with to develop and operate Apache Flink applications efficiently.

> The Apache Flink documentation \[1\] already contains a “concepts” section, but it is a ) incomplete and b) lacks an overall structure & reading flow. In addition, “concepts”-content is also spread over the development \[2\] & operations \[3\] documentation without references to the “concepts” section. An example of  this can be found in \[4\] and \[5\].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Apache Flink documentation \[1\] already contains a “concepts” section, but it is a) incomplete and b) lacks an overall structure & reading flow. In addition, “concepts”-content is also spread over the development \[2\] & operations \[3\] documentation without references to the “concepts” section. An example of this can be found in \[4\] and \[5\].
```

In this project, we would like to restructure, consolidate and extend the concepts documentation for Apache Flink to better guide users who want to become productive as quickly as possible. This includes better conceptual introductions to topics such as event time, state, and fault tolerance with proper linking to and from relevant deployment and development guides.

**Related material:**

> 1. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/

Reviewer 5: Add link to the items: 
```suggestion
1. [https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/)
```

Author: Done.

2. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/dev
3. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/ops/
4. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/concepts/programming-model.html#time
5. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/dev/event_time.html

> ### Project 2: Improve Documentation of Flink Deployments & Operations?

Reviewer 4: why we need to add `?`, can we remove `?` :)

Author: es, tpyo. Done.

**Description:** Stream processing is the processing of data in motion―in other words, computing on data directly as it is produced or received. Apache Flink has pioneered the field of distributed, stateful stream processing for the last few years. As a stateful distributed system in general and a continuously running, low-latency system in particular, Apache Flink deployments are non-trivial to setup and manage.
Unfortunately, the operations \[1\] and monitoring documentation \[2\] are arguably the weakest spots of the Apache Flink documentation. While it is comprehensive and often goes into a lot of detail, it lacks an overall structure and does not address common overarching concerns of operations teams in an efficient way.

> In this project, we would like to restructure this part of the documentation and extend it if possible. Ideas for extension include: discussion of session and per-job clusters, better documentation for containerized deployments (incl. K8s), capacity planning &  integration into CI/CD pipelines.

Reviewer 4: `Ideas for extension include: discussion of session and per-job clusters,` -> `Ideas for the extension included: discussion of the session and per-job clusters,`?

Author: Not sure. I'll leave it as is, as Seth (native speaker) did not complain ;)

> In this project, we would like to restructure this part of the documentation and extend it if possible. Ideas for extension include: discussion of session and per-job clusters, better documentation for containerized deployments (incl. K8s), capacity planning &  integration into CI/CD pipelines.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In this project, we would like to restructure this part of the documentation and extend it if possible. Ideas for extension include: discussion of session and per-job clusters, better documentation for containerized deployments (incl. K8s), capacity planning & integration into CI/CD pipelines.
```

Author: Done & one other instance as well.

**Related material:**

1. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/ops/
2. https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.8/monitoring

> ### Project 3: Improve Documentation for Relational APIs (Table API & SQL)?

Reviewer 4: can we remove `?`

Author: Yes, tpyo. Done.

> **Description:** Apache Flink features APIs at different levels of abstraction which enables its users to trade conciseness for expressiveness. Flink’s relational APIs, SQL and the Table API, are “younger” than the DataStream and DataSet APIs, more high-level and focus on data analytics use cases. A core principle of Flink’s SQL and Table API is that they can be used to process static (batch) and continuous (streaming) data and that a program or query produces the same result in both cases.

Reviewer 4: `SQL and the Table API,` -> ` SQL, and the Table API` ?

The documentation of Flink’s relational APIs has organically grown and can be improved in a few areas. There are several on-going development efforts that aim to extend the scope of the Table API and SQL.

> The existing documentation could be reorganized to prepare for covering the new features. Moreover, it could be improved by adding a concepts section that describes the use cases and internals of the APIs in more detail. Moreover, the documentation of built-in functions could be improved by adding more concrete examples.

Reviewer 5: Should we list some new features on roadmap? For example, DDL, Hive integration, Python Table API, Interactive Programming. IMO, listing some interesting features may can help to attract writers.

Reviewer 4: What we are doing now is document improvement, so, from points of my view, it is reasonable to describe it based on existing content. :)  But I think you mentioned a good point.

Author: I added some examples.
